Central Command is a division of [[Lore:NanoTrasen | NanoTrasen]] that is in charge of the administration of both NT personnel and facilities. It is a highly prestigious position and for good reason. Central acts more or less like NT's right hand when it comes to most matters and is paid quite well for it. It's the highest you can climb in the company without being a direct shareholder or NT agent.

== Structure ==

Central Command is overseen directly by the Chief Operations Officer. However the division is split up into a potentially unknown number of departments all usually with their own convoluted sub-structures. The archaic and tangled nature of Central Command's structure is at such an extent that even internally it's seen as incomprehensible by even the most senior staff.

The general guarantee is that department directors operate on a high scale level and are usually more of an advisory to Central Command itself whereas anyone else is more focused on their specific assigned sector. In the case of conflicts between officers typically seniority is what determines the outcome if not a higher ranking official.

== Hiring Practices ==

Central Command is primarily made up of NT employees who were promoted into the position after showing extreme excellence in their field. Although there is technically an application process for CC, the grand majority of candidates are recommended up the command chain by Central Officers and then contacted directly about a promotion offer if they're seen as a good pick.

== History ==

Central Command was first formed during NT's initial expansion phase after they had set up a few facilities outside of Sol. The original purpose of Central Command was to be a separate coordinated team to manage each facility and communications between them and NT. The first members of CC were primarily Captains and Facility Directors.

Due to NT's rapid growth and development, the company begun growing faster than what could be kept up with and CC ended up having to take on the slack. This is what resulted in the spiral of countless departments within Central Command and the incoherent ranking structure as they struggled to keep anything organized internally while keeping up with NT's constant demand.

== Notable Drift Specific Central Officers ==
* Agor Sparkdawn, Chief Assistant Sectional Oversight Manager
* Cassandra Red, Unknown
* Faces-Her-Fears, Unknown
* Focell, Station Engineering Oversight
* Hercules Scorched-Wing, Chief Security Director
* John Konrad, Unknown
* Kurzisux-Rathus, Assistant Director, North Drift Center for Fissure Research
* Maria Katz, Unknown
* Maximus McStyles, Unknown
* Silvano d'Andrea, Unknown
* Sparker Broadwing, Second Assistant Personnel Manager
* The-Blue-Moon, Missing Persons Department Manager
* Travis McMatherson, Fleet Commander <ref>This character is not played by an admin.</ref>
* William Nilliam, Unknown


== OOC Notes ==
<references />