The Emergency Response Team program, initially created to assist NT assets in need of additional personnel or specialists in certain fields, Such as Medical, Engineering, Religious, Janitorial, and Security.

= Structure =
The program has a rather simple power structure compared to the bureaucracy that crated it, able to be easily defined. Central Command staff, underneath the relevant departmental Directors, can affix themselves to the power structure of an ERT unit or team depending on their rank within their department.

== Non-Combative units ==

Specialists, who are deployed as non-combatants, to assist the station are dispatched to provide their Expertise in their relevant Fields, Specialists contain experts in Medical, Religious, Janitorial, Engineering; As well as Officers, a Security specific subset of specialists who can act as dispatched Law enforcement assistance.

== Combative units == 

The Militarized sections have a more complex Power structure.
a combative team team may contain any mix of units or specialists. however it is usually comprised of combatants a team can be any size and any composition of personnel

 Leaders    | are Security and Command Specialists, and are generally Sargents, and ensure the mission is completed.
 Grenadiers | are Security Specialists with the duty to clear rooms from a safe distance.
 Pointmen   | can be Security or Engineering Specialists and have the equipment to create openings in structures
 Vanguards  | are Security Specialists with the duty to hold the rear of the teams formation
 Riflemen   | are Security Specialists with the duty of being the bulk of the firepower of the unit 
 Corpsmen   | are Medical Specialists with the responsibility of providing advanced medical care to the rest of the unit

All team types have a standard power structure that is easy to reference and simple to understand. CBURN units are refereed to excursively by their rank and not by their duties within the team

 Commanders
 Colonels
 Majors
 Captains
 Lieutenants
 Sargents
 Corporals
 Privates
 Specalists 

Duties of higher ranking ERT personnel, such as: Lieutenants, Captains, Colonels, majors, and commanders; vary Greatly from occasionally taking the role of a Sargent to personally ensure a mission is completed; to ensuring that Those below you are completing their duties, or acting as an information relay for a team. these personnel will sometimes also hold other duties at central command.

= History and Practices =
== Hiring Practices ==
Much like Central Command, it primarily consists of NT employees who showed excellence in their field, however unlike Central Command the program takes volunteers, instead of direct promotions into the program. Very rarely will a direct offer to get a position within the active section of the program be offered, and these offers are usually made by either team leaders or by their commanding officers.

== History ==
First Formed out of volunteers to provide assistance to locations that requested it Initially composed of specialists in Engineering, Medical, Religious, and Janitorial. there was a slight shift after the syndicate began its activities, security personnel were added into the roster to assist locations that suspected they had activity onboard.

They were one of the first to respond to the Research Facility, and arrived in time to see the entire thing go up. Afterwards Several new specializations opened up creating the combative teams. From the cleanup crew of the disaster a new specialization within the ERT program was created for handling Radiological, burning, nuclear, and chemical disasters. After the joint Romerol experiments between Nanotressen and Interdyne Undead was added into the acronym that had been its name up to that point.

== Operation ==
Under standard circumstances most personnel within the program who aren't team leads work within the work division of the company awaiting activation; however there are exceptions such as, higher ranking personnel having duties at central command or CBURN being dedicated roles with constant training outside of activation.

== Notable Drift Specific Emergency Response Team Personel ==
* Lieutenant Blackvvitch, personal assistant To Investigator Citrine