NanoTrasen isn't just a company, it is ''The'' Company. The largest corporation recorded in galactic history, with its roots in as many markets as possible. NanoTrasen is on the forefront of just about every scientific field, seen in every new discovery, developing the newest military technology, paving the way for space travel. If it exists, NT probably does it, and while they might not be the absolute best, they somehow always get effective, quality results that can be mass produced at a cheap price, making them a go to and a staple in any industry.

With the seemingly endless amount of resources they have to back them, NT has been able to gain control over a grand majority of known space, and cemented itself as easy, well paying employment for anyone who can hold a job for more than a couple weeks.

However, being the largest megacorporation has it's draw backs. NT finds itself under constant threat of the [[Lore:Syndicate | Syndicate]]. Be it subtle infiltration and sabotage or direct military assaults, the Syndicate is trying everything in their power to bring NT down.

== Structure ==

Due to the size of NanoTrasen they operate several divisions and sometimes sub-divisions within those. The corporation itself is run by a CEO and Board of Directors whose identities remain mostly unknown to the public.

The most notable division of NanoTrasen is [[Lore:Central Command | Central Command]] who are in charge of overseeing NT facilities' day to day operations, administrative work like employee management, and any miscellaneous operations that require oversight.

Miscellaneous operations overseen by CC includes the [[Lore:Emergency Response Team | Emergency Response Team Program]]. The ERT Program is comprised of highly specialized operators who are given access to cutting edge equipment. ERT units were originally only dispatched to serve as emergency support to NT assets in need of it, however due to syndicate pressure have had their mission statement adjusted to operate as an offensive military force as well. CBURN units are also rolled under this program.

Most [[Jobs | everyone else]] NT employs is under a single labor division with several departments within itself for greater organization.

== History ==

Originally founded by Grant Trasen, NanoTrasen began in 2223 as a small Sol-bound tech start up with a focus on circuit engineering and a small handful of employees. NT would continue on this course for several years as they slowly grew in size before broadening their scope to plasma research after it was discovered, spending a good portion of their funds on a highly experimental space station to conduct said research. NT's venture into plasma research was extremely successful, becoming a key player in the field and attracting far more attention to themselves as a potentially promising company. Eventually NT started getting contracted for infrastructure and military research and development by the Sol Government. Leveraging the Government's funding and their requests, NT was able to justify more and larger expansions of their company; starting work on several new stations and planetary facilities across multiple Sol adjacent sectors.

Being seen as quite reliable by the Sol Government, they kept contracting with NanoTrasen and they quickly became a staple in Sol's research and development. During this period NT was given plenty of resources and time to continue their growth and start extending their hands into as many notable corners of the intergalactic market as possible. If NT saw potential profit to be made, they jumped on the opportunity; household chemicals, energy solutions, space ship construction, advanced robotics, military hardware, the list goes on. NanoTrasen had enough income from their plasma products alone to become a megacorporation, it's no surprise they became simply too big to be competed with properly, but then The Syndicate was formed. With a focus to tear down every mega corporation they could, The Syndicate's prime target from the start was NT.

The Syndicate would cause NT's growth to slow, while also creating large scale panic within the company and among their supporters. This panic over Syndicate sabotage would be great enough for NanoTrasen to implement higher security measures, employing small scale security teams to monitor and police NT facilities in accordance with internal company policy. However, the final straw was a Syndicate assault on an NT plasma research station where the Syndicate overloaded a nuclear reactor and caused the destruction of the facility, along with the deaths of many NT employees. After this attack, NT started scaling up their security operations. As a preventative and response measure against any future Syndicate attacks NT entered a pseudo-militarized high surveillance state. Armed security guards and well stocked armories became standard and the pre-existing ERT program was retroactively changed to be an offensive unit as well.

While NanoTrasen was preoccupied and spending most of their resources responding to Syndicate pressure it allowed some companies to expand and capitalize on certain market niches, eventually cornering them a little harder than NT could. Companies such as [[Lore:Cybersun | Cybersun]], [[Lore:Interdyne | Interdyne]], [[Lore:Donk Co | Donk Co]], and [[Lore:Factions | many more]] were able to establish themselves in the greater galactic ecosystem and while no one holds a candle to the amount of power NT has, these companies pose a legitimate competition risk and have caused NanoTrasen to have to play their cards more cautiously.

To this day NanoTrasen and the Syndicate are still at odds in a galactic arms race propelling both sides to expand, grow, and hold as much power as possible. Despite NT now controlling a grand majority of galactically governed space, the Syndicate continues their efforts to assault, infiltrate, and sabotage NanoTrasen by whatever means necessary.