The Syndicate is a loosely organized criminal organization of various walks of life, ranging everywhere from anti-capitalists, to anarchists, to private military companies, or even to people who had no other choice but to join. Everyone has their own reasons for joining but the main thing uniting most of the willing members of the Syndicate is a hatred for megacorporations. Hence their main adversary being [[Lore:NanoTrasen | NanoTrasen]].

== Structure ==

Due to the Syndicate's vast but disorderly nature there is no solid central structure for their organization, they instead operate more in localized Syndicate cells who all run themselves in different manners. Generally, most Syndicate activity is covert so the grand majority of cells don't need to be large and don't need outward communication.

Now, while most operations are covert, there is still the [[Lore:Gorlex Marauders | Gorlex Marauders]]. A notable branch of the Syndicate that specializes in overt action, terrorism, and military combat. They have established several long standing outposts and a group of commanders who lead a few small space fleets and several military units.

== History ==

Sometime after the Sol government's several dealings with NT, the Syndicate was formed by a few disgruntled NT employees in conjunction with a small criminal organization who opposed NT's principles and were looking to capitalize on a low security company while spreading their message. The Syndicate would operate as covertly as possible for their initial operations, it mostly consisted of small thefts that'd go unnoticed. The need for making an impact grew though and they slowly ramped up their aggressions till eventually they were interdicting supply transports and causing NT noticeable losses. The issue for the Syndicate is that NT started snapping back with new security measures and worst of all they were proving to be effective at hindering the Syndicate's efforts.

The Syndicate, being pressured by NT's response, decided they needed to do something big to show they wouldn't be stopped. After much planning the Syndicate begun an assault on one of NT's prized plasma research stations, with the sole intent to overload the nuclear reactor to destroy as much of it as possible. The original plan was to provide enough time for civilians to evacuate as to not cause too much undue harm, however issues arose when the onboard security team started engaging with the Syndicate operators inside the reactor core forcing them to pull the trigger much earlier than intended. The Syndicate lost 3 operators in the blast and countless civilians were unintentionally killed, despite the loss the mission was deemed successful.

The operation brought a lot of attention to the Syndicate, both positive and negative. Over the course of the next months, several notable organizations and individuals would reach out to the Syndicate to provide support or join them. One of the most significant organizations to join forces with the Syndicate was the Gorlex Marauders, who were able to lend lots of PMC manpower, a commanding structure, and a hefty arsenal. All this new found attention gave the Syndicate the resources necessary to keep scaling up their operation, split off into multiple cells through numerous sectors, and keep pace with NT, who responded to the incident by entering a pseudo-militarized state.

To this day the Syndicate and NanoTrasen are still at odds in a galactic arms race propelling both sides to expand, grow, and hold as much power as possible. Despite the length of the so called war, the Syndicate stays true to their original mission statement, to tear down every megacorporation they can by whatever means necessary.