The Fissure is a large swirling space-time anomaly in the Center of [[Lore:The_Drift|The Drift]]. It us unknown what caused the Anomaly, but it appeared in living memory and consumed multiple habituated planets. Depending on the day, it is capable of either amplifying or suppressing unnatural events. At the current year, the activity and event-horizon of The Fissure is at an all time high and some fear it may expand to cover the entire region one day. One of the main reasons for [[Lore:NanoTrasen | NanoTrasen's]] presence in the region is attempting to see if they can exploit it's effects for commercial gain.

== Known Effects of The Fissure == 
The fissure is known to produced both psychological and physical effects. The fissure has been confirmed to:
* Create whirling masses of pure universal energy (typically referred to as Anomalies)
* Cause Mass Hallucinations
* Expel large quantities of salvage with unknown corpses present.
* Suppression of all "magical" things.

It is commonly rumored that sometimes when a man dies out in EVA, their body is found later down the line in an unrelated area with their DNA makeup changed but no visible adulterations. Sometimes multiple reports for the same body has been logged. NanoTrasen's official policy is that the Fissure is incapable of any form of cloning and these signings are just hallucinations.

One particular incident a few months ago, a pirate crew drove head-first into the fissure- weather this was intentional or not is unknown. The bodies were later confirmed to be found by a station crew, however despite the fact they were walking it seemed like they were missing the spark of life- Possibly becoming some sort of Fissure Entity.

== Fissure Entities ==
The fissure seems to attempt to communicate with people from time-to-time. This typically takes the form of some sort of physical body. These creatures are typically referred to as "Fissure Entities" with some being benign and some being hostile.