''Nanotrasen's overarching laws that security teams are hired to enforce. Any persons or vessels in an NT controlled sector are required to follow these laws.''

== Treatment of Prisoners ==

All prisoners or persons in custody are subject to the same treatment.

* Prisoners must be given clothing and edible food/drink if requested.
* Prisoners must be contained in a safe area, if their current confinement cell is unfit for life they are to be escorted to the next best location.
* Prisoners must have all their confiscated belongings returned to them upon release, unless they are illegal or were used to commit a crime.
* Prisoners must have access to communications equipment, unless they abuse it after warnings.
* Prisoners must not be restrained while in a safe cell, unless they pose a threat to life or limb.
* Prisoners must be given medical aid upon request or inability to request it due to medical reasons, unless they pose a threat to life or limb.
* Prisoners must be given legal or spiritual counseling upon request if available, unless they pose a threat to life or limb.


== Searches and Confiscation ==

There are three defined searches; Personal Searches, Custody Searches, and Department Searches. Each has their own specifications on what's being searched and when they can be performed.

'''- Personal Searches'''<br>
A personal search is limited to one person and includes a search of their belongings for any illegal items. Common procedure is to search in any pockets, bags, and coats, then confiscate any illegal items. However if there's reason to search other objects like their radio, PDA, or boots, these may be done at the searching officer's discretion.

To perform a personal search one of three requirements must be met; the searching officer has a properly filed search warrant, the personnel's Head of Staff approves and accompanies the officer during their search, or the facility's alert level is blue or higher.

'''- Custody Searches'''<br>
A custody search is limited to one person and includes a search of their belongings for any illegal items, or equipment used in a crime. Common procedure is to perform a full and thorough search of their gear and person, then confiscate any illegal items or equipment that was used to commit a crime. However it is ultimately up to the searching officer's discretion as to how in-depth the search is.

To perform a custody search one of two requirements must be met; the person being searched is currently in custody for a crime, or an officer witnessed the person commit a crime themselves while they are not currently in custody.

'''- Department Searches'''<br>
A department search is limited to an entire department's physical area and its staff, this includes a search of any involved department staff's belongings and objects inside the involved department area for any illegal items. Common procedure is to gather all involved personnel into the same room, perform a personal search on all of them, hold them in the room while the rest of the department is being searched, and then confiscate any illegal items. However it is ultimately up to the leading officer's discretion on how the search is executed.

To perform a department search one of two requirements must be met; the searching officers have a properly filed department search warrant, or the Head of the involved department approves and accompanies the officers on their search.

'''- Vessel Searches'''<br>
A vessel search is limited to a vessel and its occupants, this includes a search of any known crew's belongings and objects inside the vessel for any illegal items. Procedure is much like a departmental search however extra caution should be exercised due to the mobile nature of vessels.

To perform a vessel search one of three requirements must be met; One of the vessel's crewmembers have been arrested for a crime and there is reasonable belief that searching their vessel will assist with security's investigation of the crime, there is reasonable belief that the crew is hiding stolen items, contraband items, kidnapped individuals, or known criminals on their vessel, or an owner of the vessel approves and accompanies the officers on their search.


== Detainments, Arrests, and Interrogations ==

Security, High Command, or Central Command ranking personnel are authorized to act with the authority to detain, arrest, and interrogate any person so long as they are acting lawfully. The Head of Security, Captain, and any Central Command personnel may deputize anyone with one of more of these authorizations at their discretion.

* '''Detainment''': The temporary holding of someone outside of the brig for their safety, the safety of others, investigative purposes, or for the arrival of arresting authorized personnel. Anyone who shows signs of being an imminent threat to themselves or others, is obstructing or encroaching on a security scene, is being searched, or has been witnessed committing a crime by the detainer may be detained by any authorized persons. The detainment may only last up until the situation is now clear for them to undetained. Someone may be detained and forcefully moved to another safe and public location if it would prove more useful than keeping them detained for the entire duration of the situation.

* '''Arrest''': The act of bringing a criminal into custody to charge them with a crime and sentence them. Anyone who has been confirmed to have committed a crime may be arrested by any authorized persons. An arrest ends once the criminal is in the brig and being processed.

* '''Interrogation''': The act of holding and forcefully questioning someone for investigative purposes. Anyone who is believed to have committed a crime, be linked to a crime, or have witnessed a crime may be interrogated by any authorized persons, so long as there is an interrogation warrant approving such an act. Interrogations may be held wherever the interrogating officer sees best fit. Interrogations are to conclude in accordance with the written warrant, however the interrogated person may opt to continue afterwards for as long as they desire. Interrogations may not be conducted in unlawful ways, be it through the use of violence or inflicting extreme mental distress. Anyone who is confirmed to have been intentionally lying during an interrogation may be charged with fraud.


== Warrants ==

Warrants are signed permits giving authorization to do one of two things; search a person/place, or interrogate a person. All permits must detail who/what is being searched/interrogated, the officer(s) conducting the procedure, the general reason that led to the warrant's existence, the general time the warrant is approved for use, and when the procedure concludes or expires. Warrants may not be held from those involved if they ask for a copy of them

Who can approve a warrant is determined by the type. If one of the conducting officers is someone who is capable of approving the warrant then the warrant can only get approved by one of their superiors.

* '''Search Warrants''': A signed permit giving authorization to search a specific person or location in accordance with the type of search it is. Personal searches can only be approved by the Warden, the HoS, or the Captain. Department searches can only be approved by the Head of the related department or the Captain. When a search warrant concludes may be listed as a time frame or things such as upon the leading officer's discretion or once every room and person has been cleared.

* '''Interrogation Warrants''': A signed permit giving authorization to hold and forcefully question a person. An interrogation warrant can only be approved by the Warden, the HoS, or the Captain. An interrogation warrant can only last for a timed duration, upwards to an hour after the interrogation begins.


== Implant Procedures ==

Any prisoner in custody can be subjected to implantation or implant removal procedures, so long as it's within reason. The process of adding an implant should not prolong the detainees sentence, meaning you can not hold them longer to administer the implant. A former inmate can be requested to undergo implantation at a later point in time, upwards of a day, if they fit the requirements during their confinement, if they refuse they can be forced to comply. Implants can only be force administered with the Head of Security or Captain's permission. A prisoner can still receive implantation without meeting the requirements if they give their clear permission.

At this point in time the only implant that is authorized for forced implantation are security tracking implants, which may be administered to anyone who has been convicted of breach of custody or a crime involving direct intentional harm to themself to others.

=== Removal ===
A suspect can be forced to receive implant removal if there is strong reasonable proof that they possess an illegal implant, such as an officer seeing them use one or their prints being on a discarded injector. Unlike implantation procedure a prisoner can have their sentence entirely delayed or extended until they comply with the procedure, as long as security are actively making attempts to perform it. Akin to implanting, if an inmate gives their clear permission, implant removal can proceed without proof.


== Sentencing ==

All sentencing except warnings should be handled by the warden, however if there is no warden or they are neglecting their duty, the chain of succession is in this order: Head of Security > Senior Officer > Security Staff > Captain > Head of Personnel. The person handling sentencing may at their discretion designate any security staff to take care of a sentencing matter on their behalf. If deemed fit and reasonable the Head of Security may overrule any sentence issued, the Captain reserves the same right to overrule however they may also overrule the Head of Security.

Sentences should only be as harsh as needed. The sentencing officer should use their discretion to charge according to the severity of each crime committed. Issuing someone the maximum punishment for a crime or a series of crimes should only be done if absolutely necessary.

Sentences should be processed within a reasonable time frame. Generally once a criminal is brought into the brig the sentencing officer should start keeping track of how long they have been in the brig and deduct that from their sentence once the sentencing process has been completed, a rough estimation will also work if required.

=== Clauses ===
* '''Stackable Crimes''': When working with timed confinement, crimes are to be considered 'stackable' in the sense that if you charge someone with two or more unique crimes, you should add up the times you would give them for each crime for a total final sentence. Linked crimes are generally evolutions of each other and can not be stacked. Linked crimes instead override each other and you should pick the highest crime that matches the case. For example; if you're giving someone 2 minutes of confinement for theft and 5 for assault, you would add up the time for a 7 minute confinement duration. For another example; If someone commits Trespass and Secure Trespass, you can only charge them with Secure Trespass because they're linked crimes.

* '''Repeat Offenders''': When working with timed confinement, a person is charged with a repeated crime if they have committed and been taken into custody for the type of crime in question in the past. Repeated crimes may be used to tack-on time to someone's confinement sentence if desired. Each instance of repeated crime adds 3 minutes to someone's sentence, additionally, this tacked-on time stacks with other repeated crimes, for example if this is a person's third theft then up to 6 minutes can be added to their sentence, plus 3 minutes if this was their second assault charge.

* '''Accessory, Attempting, And Intention''': If someone intentionally, knowingly and substantially assists someone in enacting a crime they can be charged with the relevant crimes, such as an engineer giving someone who says they are going to break into an area the tools to do so. Same goes for a clear and solid attempt at a crime, or a person who shows clear intent to act out a crime, for example a person attempting to take a hostage but being taken into custody midway through can still be charged with hostage taking.

* '''Court''': Any person charged with a punishment aside from a warning or a timed confinement sentence may request a trial from Central Command during the duration of their sentence, which will be handled in due time under Central protocol. Alternatively, the person may opt to try and get all involved parties in agreement for a non-Central court case, however a critical party may refuse to take part for any reason and if they are irreplaceable in the case then a non-Central trial is impossible.

=== Punishments ===
* '''Warning''': The lowest punishment, a warning can be issued in place of any other punishment and is simply a clear warning to the perpetrator that continued illegal action will result in heavier sentencing.

* '''Confinement''': Confinement in the station's general population brig for a set duration. If there is reasonable belief that putting a prisoner in the general population brig would be unsafe for others, a different cell may be used. Any belongings of confined persons may be confiscated and stored securely till the prisoner is released.

* '''Permanent Custody''': A confinement sentence that does not end until decided upon by the Head of Security, Captain, or Central Command.

* '''Psychiatric Custody''': A looser confinement sentence that does not end until decided upon by the Chief Medical Officer, Captain, or Central Command. The person in custody does not need to be confined within the general population brig if deemed safe and preferable for medical personnel. The person in custody is to receive physiological assessment and help during the duration of their sentence. This sentence can not be applied if there are no medical personnel willing to perform the task.

* '''Deportation''': The forced transport of a person from station bounds to another facility due to inability to confine them safely. This sentence can only be applied if Central Command signs off on it.

* '''Execution''': A legal and humane way of dealing with severely problematic persons. The sentenced person may make a request at how they are executed, if it is deemed possible within a reasonable amount of time, security must comply with their wishes. Removal of one's brain to instead be placed in an NT cyborg has been deemed a reasonable execution request. This sentence can only be applied if the Captain and Head of Security both sign off on it.


== Crimes ==

Crimes that involve a direct specific victim are only punishable if the victim opts to press charges; if the victim is left in a condition where they are unable to voice their opinion or refuse to then it is to be assumed that they opt to press charges. Additionally, crimes are not punishable if the person was acting in self defense against a reasonable threat or in a manner to rescue someone whose life was in imminent danger.

The Max Sentencing per each crime will always list a maximum confinement time, however they may occasionally have alternative punishments listed. It is important to remember that you may only select one of the punishments under max sentencing. Warnings may always be issued in the place of any punishment.

Other punishments that do not fall in line with a crime's Max Sentence may also be sought if it is deemed reasonable enough. For a bypass punishment to be processed Central Command must be made aware and approve of it.

=== Quick Reference Table ===
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|- style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 2px 1px"
| style="border-width: 2px" | '''Code''' || style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 2px 1px 2px 2px" | '''XX-I''' || '''XX-II''' || '''XX-III''' || '''XX-IV''' || '''XX-V'''
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 2px 2px 1px 2px" | '''01-X''' || Endangerment || Mass Endangerment
 ||  ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''02-X''' || Assault || Battery || Maiming ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''03-X''' || Manslaughter || Suicide || Murder || Mass Murder || Prevention of Revival
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''04-X''' || Harassment ||  ||  ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''05-X''' || Disorderly Conduct || Mass Disturbance || Rioting ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''06-X''' || Obstruction ||  ||  ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''07-X''' || Vandalism || Tampering || Destruction of Property || Mass Destruction || Facility Destruction
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''08-X''' || Theft || Grand Theft || Vessel Hijack ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''09-X''' || Neglect of Duty || Breach of Procedure || Abuse of Authority ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''10-X''' || Possession: Substances || Possession: Restricted || Possession: Contraband ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''11-X''' || Distribution: Substances || Distribution: Restricted || Distribution: Contraband ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''12-X''' || Failure to Comply || Resisting Arrest || Breach of Custody ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''13-X''' || Trespass || Secure trespass ||  ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''14-X''' || Coercion || Unlawful Control || Hostage Taking ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''15-X''' || Animal Abuse || Animal Slaughter ||  ||  || 
|-
| style="color:white; background-color:#5b0f00; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px 2px" | '''16-X''' || Bribery || Fraud || Forgery || Impersonation || 
|}

=== Extended Reference Table ===
{| class="wikitable"
! style="color:white; background-color:#660000; text-align: left" | Crime !! style="color:white; background-color:#660000; text-align: left" | Description !! style="color:white; background-color:#660000; text-align: left" | Max Sentencing (H:MM) !! style="color:white; background-color:#660000; text-align: left" | Notes
|-
| Endangerment || To recklessly put yourself or others in danger, either through direct action, or unreasonable failure to act. || Confinement: 0:08 || Covers things such as self experimentation, failure to act as a security officer, and operating small scale machines without the proper knowledge.
|-
| Mass Endangerment || To recklessly put yourself and/or several others in danger, either through direct action or unreasonable failure to act. || Confinement: 0:18 || Similar to Endangerment but for larger scale things like operating station infrastructure without proper knowledge.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Assault || To threaten another person with physical harm or death. || Confinement: 0:08 || Can be extended even to personal spats and sometimes jokes if the receiving party was seriously frightened for their life.
|-
| Battery || To physically harm another person without the intent to kill. || Confinement: 0:14 || Intent is the difference between battery and attempted murder.
|-
| Maiming || To physically harm someone to the extent of causing extended damage to their being or impairment to their function. || Confinement: 0:24 || Ranges from severely damaged digits to dismemberment.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Manslaughter || To cause another person's death without the intent to kill, either through direct action or unreasonable failure to act. || Confinement: 0:20 || Includes manslaughter in self-defense so long as the threat could have been reasonably neutralized without the loss of life.
|-
| Suicide || To cause your own death with intent. || Confinement: 0:34<br>Psychiatric Custody || A do not resuscitate order may also be preferable for repeated suicide while in custody.
|-
| Mass Murder || To cause three or more people's deaths with the intent to kill. || Confinement: 2:00<br>Permanent/Psychiatric Custody || Intention still matters.
|-
| Prevention of Revival || To render a corpse unrevivable through most standard means, either through direct action or unreasonable failure to act. || Confinement: 2:30<br>Permanent/Psychiatric Custody<br>Execution || Things such as ashing, gibbing, spacing, and rotting. Even covers accidental cases, however obviously with a much lighter sentence.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Harassment || To continuously interact with and bother another specific person after requests for you to stop. || Confinement: 0:08 || Does not cover someone performing their required duty in a polite manner.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Disorderly Conduct
 || To conduct one's self poorly to the extent of disturbing others. || Confinement: 0:06 || The catch all for most small scale hooliganism. Covers things such as public nudity, needless insults, and inciting other criminal activity.
|-
| Mass Disturbance || To conduct one's self poorly to the extent of disturbing a significant number of others, such as a room full. || Confinement: 0:12 || Ranges from misuse of communication channels to bomb threats.
|-
| Rioting || To take part in a large group of people causing mass disturbance or other disruptive activity. || Confinement: 0:18 || Leaders of a riot can be charged with any crime they may have incited during their leadership.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Obstruction || To prevent others from performing their duties through the use of physical blockades or refusing to move out of their way. || Confinement: 0:08 || Covers things such as making hallways difficult to traverse and getting overly close during a security arrest.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Vandalism || To deface or minorly damage property. || Confinement: 0:06 || For things that are easy to clean or repair like graffiti and small amounts of damage to windows.
|-
| Tampering || To alter, bypass, or damage a machine or device's function. || Confinement: 0:10 || For things such as hacking vending machines, airlocks, telecommunication servers, and access cards.
|-
| Destruction of Property || To completely destroy or cause a piece of property to be non-functional. || Confinement: 0:14 || For things that aren't so easy to clean or repair like breaking down walls.
|-
| Mass Destruction || To cause destruction on a mass scale, rendering an entire area non-functional. || Confinement: 0:30 || For things that disable an entire area like damaging critical power, atmospheric, and hull structure.
|-
| Facility Destruction || To cause the destruction or inhabitability of an entire facility or vessel. || Confinement: 2:00<br>Permanent Custody || Be it intentional like attempting to use nuclear weaponry or accidental like failing to contain a singularity.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Theft || To intentionally take an item that does not belong to you. || Confinement: 0:08 || Items such as tools, access cards, and apparel.
|-
| Grand Theft || To intentionally take an item that does not belong to you and is virtually irreplaceable. || Confinement: 0:16 || Items such as door remotes, irreplaceable machines, and very personal belongings.
|-
| Vessel Hijack || To intentionally take control and attempt to steal a shuttle, ship, or vessel that does not belong to you. || Confinement: 0:28 || Doesn't include vessels classified as derelict under Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Neglect of Duty || To fail to perform your job or duty to an unreasonable degree. || Confinement: 0:08 || Covers things such as failing to respond to an urgent job related matter. It may sometimes be better to seek demotion from their Head of Staff.
|-
| Breach of Procedure || To violate the facility's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:12 || Violating any measure of SOP that you're supposed to follow. It may sometimes be better to seek demotion from their Head of Staff. 
|-
| Abuse of Authority || To use your position of authority in order to engage in fraudulent behaviors, either unlawfully punishing others or covering up criminal activity. || Confinement: 0:36 || Includes things such as taking bribes, planting evidence, or using unlawful force. It may sometimes be better to seek demotion from their Head of Staff.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Possession: Substances || To unlawfully use or possess substances that are controlled under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:06 || Covers anything under the Controlled Substances category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| Possession: Restricted || To unlawfully use or possess equipment or weaponry that is restricted under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:10 || Covers anything under the Restricted Equipment category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| Possession: Contraband || To unlawfully use or possess items or substances that are listed as contraband under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:14 || Covers anything under the Contraband category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Distribution: Substances || To unlawfully produce or give out substances that are controlled under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:12 || Covers anything under the Controlled Substances category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| Distribution: Restricted || To unlawfully produce or give out equipment or weaponry that is restricted under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:16 || Covers anything under the Restricted Equipment category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| Distribution: Contraband || To unlawfully produce or give out items or substances that are listed as contraband under the sector's active Standard Operating Procedures. || Confinement: 0:20 || Covers anything under the Contraband category in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Failure to Comply || To refuse or fail to follow lawful orders given to you by a relevant authority. || Confinement: 0:08 || Includes any station authority, be it security or command, giving lawful and reasonable orders.
|-
| Resisting Arrest || To attempt to flee or physically fight against a lawful arrest while outside the brig. || Confinement: 0:12 || This does not apply to people who had no reasonable way to know they were under arrest or were wanted by security.
|-
| Breach of Custody || To attempt to escape custody while inside the brig. || Confinement: 0:26<br>Permanent Custody<br>Deportation || This includes attempting to break someone else out of custody.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Trespass || To enter an area you're not authorized to be in without permission. || Confinement: 0:06 || Permission is important, being invited into an area is not a crime.
|-
| Secure Trespass || To enter a secure area you're not authorized to be in without permission. || Confinement: 0:12 || What is defined as a secure area is handled by the Secured Rooms section in Standard Operating Procedure.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Coercion || To threaten someone with violence or harm to get them to act in your interest. || Confinement: 0:14 || Akin to assault but with the intent to get the victim to do something in your favor.
|-
| Unlawful Control || To unlawfully restrain, confine, or cause someone to be unable to refuse your demands without the use of threats or violence. || Confinement: 0:18 || Includes things like unlawful arrests, mind control, and tampering with synthetics so that they must follow your orders.
|-
| Hostage Taking || To unlawfully restrain or confine someone and threaten their well being to get others to follow your demands. || Confinement: 0:46<br>Psychiatric Custody || The difference between Unlawful Control and Hostage Taking is that hostages are used to get others to comply with your demands.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Animal Abuse || To needlessly act cruel towards, endanger, harm, or torture animals considered as pets. || Confinement 0:10 || Livestock, varmint, and animals that are hostile to humanoids are typically recognized as non-pets, however the Captain has the final say over this.
|-
| Animal Slaughter || To needlessly kill animals considered as pets. || Confinement: 0:14<br>Psychiatric Custody || Similar to animal abuse but covers intentional killing.
|-
| style="padding: 25px" | ||  ||  || 
|-
| Bribery || To use currency or other forms of payment to get an authority to act unlawfully. || Confinement: 0:08 || Includes things such as attempting to bribe authorities to ignore crimes and using bribes to get a lesser punishment.
|-
| Fraud || To intentionally misrepresent another person's actions. || Confinement: 0:12 || For things such as lying about someone's role in a crime, be it written or verbal.
|-
| Forgery || To fabricate a person's signature, an official stamp, or a document. || Confinement: 0:20 || Intention does not matter for forgery.
|-
| Impersonation || To intentionally fake your appearance or voice to represent someone or something you are not to cause confusion or to further personal interests. || Confinement: 0:26 || Does not cover playful impersonation, as long as they don't create genuine confusion.
|}

[[Category:In-character_rules]]