''The standard procedures followed by security staff on any uniform NT station. The Head of Security can edit, make additions, and make exceptions to their station's security operating procedures whenever they please as long as a copy of the changes is forwarded to the Captain's fax machine and another laid out in the security break room or other main room. The captain may veto any change made by the HoS if they see fit. Anyone considered under the security department is required to follow this document.''

== Firearms Handling ==

A firearm is defined as a sidearm if it is capable of being carried in a pocket or on a belt.

Firearms should be carried in accordance with the security equipment section. With some exceptions:
* Any firearm is permitted to be carried by security personnel in security areas or firing ranges. Including contraband weaponry as long as it is being used with the intent of practice.
* Firearms with the ability to change firemodes to non-lethal variants are permitted to be carried like they are non-lethal weapons.
* The Head of Security and Warden are permitted to carry their standard issue firearms regardless of circumstance.


== Required Implants ==

Any officially hired security member must always be implanted with a mindshield during shifts unless it must be removed for medical operations. Any security members hired into the department during shifts may be given an exception at the discretion of the Head of Security.


== Uniform ==

<span style="color:black; background:#7cfc00">Green</span>: Officers should be wearing at least one identifiable piece of security insignia on them. This can be either attire that is commonly associated with security or pieces of security clothing that directly show security symbols.

<span style="color:black; background:#1e90ff">Blue</span>: Officers should be wearing at least one identifiable piece of security insignia on them, while avoiding any other departmental insignia that would cause confusion at a quick glance. This should be a piece of security clothing that directly shows security symbols.

<span style="color:black; background:#ff0000">Red</span>: Officers should be wearing more than one piece of security insignia on them, no other departmental insignia or other attire that could conflict and cause confusion at a quick glance is allowed. At least one part should be security clothing that directly shows security symbols, the rest can be attire that is commonly associated with security.


== Equipment ==

<span style="color:black; background:#7cfc00">Green</span>: Officers may forgo body armor or helmets. Officers may carry a lethal sidearm with them. All other standard issue gear is authorized.

<span style="color:black; background:#1e90ff">Blue</span>: Officers are advised to wear at least one piece of body armor or helmet. Officers must carry a lethal sidearm with them.

<span style="color:black; background:#ffbf00">Amber</span>/<span style="color:black; background:#cd7f32">Bronze</span>: Officers must wear a piece of body armor or a helmet. Officers may carry a lethal longarm if authorized by the Warden.

<span style="color:black; background:#ff0000">Red</span>: Officers must wear body armor, helmets are optional. Officers are advised to always keep a loaded lethal longarm on them.

<span style="color:black; background:#ffff00">Yellow</span>: Hardsuits are automatically authorized for officers who request them.

<span style="color:black; background:#bf002c">Omega</span>: All equipment is authorized to preserve the life of any remaining crew, this includes contraband.


== Rules of Engagement ==

<span style="color:black; background:#7cfc00">Green</span>/<span style="color:black; background:#cd7f32">Bronze</span>: Officers should always attempt to de-escalate. When escalating less-than lethals should take priority unless there has been an intent to harm.

<span style="color:black; background:#1e90ff">Blue</span>/<span style="color:black; background:#ffbf00">Amber</span>: Officers should seek de-escalation however can take the moves to escalate and put an end to a situation if they are pressed for time. When escalating less-than lethals should take priority unless there is a reasonable threat to life or limb.

<span style="color:black; background:#ff0000">Red</span>: Officers should seek escalation to put an end to all on-going situations till the alert level can be lowered. Lethals can be employed with a bit more leniency, however less-than lethals should still be used on non-violent suspects.

<span style="color:black; background:#8b0000">Delta</span>: Officers may choose to instantly escalate with suspects that hinder crew evacuation. Lethals are authorized if they will save time.

[[Category:In-character_rules]]